# Pre-Thesis Advisement Report 1

On October 4 1:20 PM, I went to meet with Professor Agnieszka Roginska and talked with her about the fied of immersive audio and what I might be able to do in this potential field.

The meeting started by my self introdution. Based on my previous background in the technology side, as well as my intention of combining my technical background with musical interests, Professor Roginska pointed out that there are a very wide of directions in the fields of immersive audio where I could dive into, but the most important thing is to ask myself what is the thing that mostly interests me in the first place. She gave me an example of herself about how she had made the decision of choosing her career: there were hundreds of papers Professor Roginska had read in the early time of exploration, all of which she felt interested about to some degree, until the one paper showed up and she found its topic really exciting to her, which later became the main theme of her career.

The story is inspiring to me. I had a very vague impression about the work I am interested to do as my long term career: I told Professor Roginska that my ideal career should involve the keyword "creativity", and I'm hesitating between the two general directions: one direction is to pour more energy into the music part, where I might find algorithmic composition and computer music as a good medium to instantiate the creative thoughts, another might be immersive audio where there are more musical/audio-related engineering problems I could solve and contribute to. Both seem fun to me at my current point of view but the most important thing I need to ask myself is which one really excites me most. To answer the question I need to read a lot of papers to know what is going on in this field to begin with. To make my search of interests more efficient, Professor Roginska suggested me having a good habit of reading papers everyday, which I think is very helpful and doable. Making it some sort of a daily ritual.

What I found in the field of computer music so far that interests me: algorithmic composition with Csound and/or SuperCollider; augemented performance, where traditional musical instruments are played with all kinds of technical assitance for better effects; musical information retrival and analysis, which involves a lot of digital signal processing. A lot of interesting topics in this field are presented in Computer Music Journal, which could be a good source for my daily paper reading ritual recently.

Immersive audio focuses more on the acoustic part, and AES is a good source to keep track of the cutting edge progress in this field. Professor Roginska suggested me to take a look at interesting talks during this year's AES and to attend those that attracts me when I'm free of volunteering. I've been to following sessions: Interactive AR Audio Using Spark, Workflow for 360 Audio Production, 360/3D VR Concert Videos with 3D Immersive Audio, Media Network Basics, Binaural Audio - Geek Thing or Future Audio Entertainment, Ambisonics in Cinema. From these sessions, I've learnt that immersive audio nowadays is at a very special postion where its development, together with VR/AR, has an interesting and exciting potential in the future.

Apart from the papers and AES, Professor Roginska also suggested Unity as a good starting point in immersive & spacial audio. I might teach myself the basics of Unity during my leisure time, especially the [audio spatializer SDK](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/AudioSpatializerSDK.html) part for details in this field. Game Audio I/II cources might also help me in the field.