# Pre-Thesis Advisement Report 2

After last pre-thesis advisement with Professor Agnieszka Roginska, I have read some papers in the field of immersive audio and become more familiar with the immersive pipeline using object-based audio, as well as some current progress of introducing the concept of Internet of Things into music production, so that various sensors embedded in different smart devices can connect to each other and provide more efficient workflow.

Apart from immersive audio, computer music is another interesting topic I am interested in, partially due to the fact that it matches well with my computer engineering background so that I feel very comfortable in this cross field and would like to invest more attentions to the related topics. I've visited Professor Tae Hong Park to get more information in this field. Prof. Park talked with me about both his work of citygram, which keeps track of the sound of a city. The project is indeed very large in scale, but what really makes me think more is when Professor Park asked me to think about this project in a longer time perspective, where people one hundred yeas later might also be able to listen to the sound of a city. I never really relate history to the future, to be honest. The term "history" seems more like a word associated to the past, but for people in the future, I am living in their past, so I am living in their history. This update of perspective in time makes me think more about what I can contribute to the history. The takeaway in another meeting with Prof. Neil Rolnick is that to perform well and achieve something, I have to focus on the things that matters most to me and keep doing it every day without stop, which is the same as what Prof. Roginska emphasized last time. I also talked with Prof. Alexander Sigman for advisement, and he recommended to me really cool people and helpful resources in the field of computer music that I might refer to, including the book Machine Musicianship by Professor Robert Rowe, the work done by David Cope, and some useful tools nowadays to make computer music.

Recently I also started to read the book Creativity by _Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi_, which is recommended in the review of last advisement report. A lot of the opinions in the book have refreshed my perspective on creativity and creative person. Basically, I now regard creative activities in a more systematic way, where creative person should not be regarded in a stand-alone perspective, but be put into a context where there are a larger group of people act as the judge to determine the quality of the created work. In the words of economist _George Stigler_, "he isn’t entitled to a warm reception. He has to earn it, whether by the skill of his exposition, the novelty of his ideas, or what." I will continue to finish the rest of the book for more inspiration. Interestingly, some opinions in the book are aligned with/supported by an online blog post (Going Critical by Kevin Simler) I read last week, which focus on the modeling of diffusion processes in the network and introduces the concept of percolation threshold. I find this model inspiring because it provides a mathematical way to see how creative ideas diffuse through the network of human culture.